# Systolic Hypertension in the Elderly Program (SHEP) (Pilot Study)
**NCT**: `NCT00000499`
## Brief Summary
The SHEP Pilot Study had six objectives, each designed to develop and test critical components of a full scale trial directed at the health consequences of treating isolated systolic hypertension (ISH) in the elderly.~l. To estimate and compare the yield of participants for randomization into a clinical trial from various community groups using various recruitment techniques.~2. To estimate compliance with the visit schedule and to the prescribed double-blind regimens.~3. To estimate and compare the effectiveness of specified antihypertensive medications in reducing the blood pressure.~4. To estimate and compare the unwanted effects of specified antihypertensive medication in an elderly population.~5. To evaluate the feasibility and effectiveness of periodic behavioral assessment in this population.~6. To develop and test methods of ascertaining stroke and other disease endpoints.
## Inclusion Criteria
Men and women, aged 60 or over. Isolated systolic hypertension. Normal diastolic pressure of less than 90 mm Hg.
## Full Text
Summary: The SHEP Pilot Study had six objectives, each designed to develop and test critical components of a full scale trial directed at the health consequences of treating isolated systolic hypertension (ISH) in the elderly.~l. To estimate and compare the yield of participants for randomization into a clinical trial from various community groups using various recruitment techniques.~2. To estimate compliance with the visit schedule and to the prescribed double-blind regimens.~3. To estimate and compare the effectiveness of specified antihypertensive medications in reducing the blood pressure.~4. To estimate and compare the unwanted effects of specified antihypertensive medication in an elderly population.~5. To evaluate the feasibility and effectiveness of periodic behavioral assessment in this population.~6. To develop and test methods of ascertaining stroke and other disease endpoints.
Inclusion criteria: Men and women, aged 60 or over. Isolated systolic hypertension. Normal diastolic pressure of less than 90 mm Hg.
Exclusion criteria:
